>> Let me tell you
a little anecdote.
A few days ago, a lady
said to me in Los Angeles,
my husband died a year ago.
And he shared with me a
great lesson on his deathbed.
He said to me, "Come close,
I want to tell you something.
Listen very, carefully.
I can only say this once.
I don't have much
strength left."
She said, "I'm
listening, Darling.
What is it?"
He said, "Remember, this always.
Each morning, the moment you
take your head off the pillow.
You have all you need."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If we look at the
mind as an iceberg.
And the tip of the
iceberg is what's
above the surface--
that's the conscious mind.
That's the mind of choice.
That's the action mind.
What's below the surface, and
that's most of the iceberg,
right?
That's the subconscious mind.
Like a submarine, you
don't know it's there,
but it's there
unless it surfaces.
>> Well, most of
us say we want x.
I want a new car.
I want a fancy house.
I want inner peace.
I want a loving relationship.
And then we start to
go out into our world.
And we say I will
earn the right.
And you start
working away at life.
You're using your mind a lot
and you're working at everything
and things get in the way.
Life seems to throw
curves at you.
>> You can think of everyone
in this world that you know,
as dragging a whole bunch
of suitcases behind them.
The Emotion Code is a way to cut
loose all those suitcases, all
those steamer trunks,
all that baggage
that you've been carrying
around all your life.
The end result of that
is that you become light,
and you become able to
manifest into the world what
you're supposed to
be able to manifest.
Imagine living in a world
where everyone is actually
manifesting from their
heart into the world
their perfect creation that
is inside each of them, that's
where we're going.
[ALARMING RINGING]
[RADIO PLAYING]
- The way I understand
emotions are
that when we have
emotions, oftentimes
we don't express our emotions.
And the good emotions,
we do express.
But the negative or the
painful emotions, they
get trapped in our body.
And we can become sick
from those emotions.
And the way I understand it
is like a glass of water,
where you add water,
you add water,
you continue to add water.
But when we don't express them
when, we don't give it energy,
and we don't work
through our stuff,
then, ultimately, it's
going to spill over
into a disease or an
illness or something that
manifests as a result of
what we haven't worked on.
>> I am absolutely convinced
that it is our trapped emotions
and traumas and anxieties and
unprocessed life experiences
that we hold in our nervous
system are the source
of everything that ails us.
>> One of the most profound
things in my life has been able
to share ancient wisdom that I
came across just as a young guy
traveling around the world and
fascinated by communities that
pretty much live off the grid.
And they're long lived,
they're healthy, they're happy.
And it always bothered
me how can they
be that way without
hospitals and doctors
and miracle supplements
and pills and capsules.
They don't have any of that.
>> What I've come to understand
is at the core of every
symptom, every stress, every
disease pattern that we
experience, whether
it be physical,
whether it be
emotional are emotions,
memories that are buried
in our subconscious mind.
And when these are
triggered, our body reacts.
It's called a maladaptive
stress reaction.
And what it means
is that we're not
able to adapt in the
present moment here and now.
And what happens
is our body reacts
as if something from the
past is going on right now.
>> Now when we react to
conditions in our life,
there is an emotional component
that begins to create chemistry
in our bodies.
Because the body is interpreting
an emergency situation.
Now all organisms in nature are
designed for short term stress.
A gazelle gets chased by a lion.
15 minutes later, it goes
back to grazing and everything
returns back to balance.
Human beings are a
little different.
We can turn on the stress
response just by thought alone.
We can think about
some past bitter memory
that's tattooed in the
recesses of our gray matter.
And like magic,
it comes to life.
And in that moment, it's real.
>> Whenever you see something,
because the brain works
in pictures, there is a response
to that image of the sensory
impact.
If you hear a sound
that sounds dangerous,
your body, your brain will
create an emotional molecule
to get you to respond to that.
>> And as a result, the
heart rate increases,
our immune system suppresses.
We become more anxious because
we're not in our fullest
potential in the moment.
The core of every symptom
stress and disease
are emotions and memories,
traumatic perceptions
that are buried in
our subconscious mind.
[CAR ENGINE]
[RADIO PLAYING]
>> And grab them by the balls.
You take control
of the situation.
Otherwise, you and I know--
>> Whoa!
>> So how are all of these
thoughts and feelings,
conscious and both unconscious,
contributing to the challenges
we're having in
our physical body?
When we have
experiences in our lives
that overwhelmed us emotionally
or brought us a lot of pain,
what we're finding is that there
are these protective mechanisms
that help us to overcome and
survive these experiences.
This protective mechanisms
actually take these experiences
and suppress them--
not just in our mind
but in our body.
And the evidence
of that suppression
is muscular tension.
>> First of all, to understand
how the Emotion Code works,
you have to understand that the
human body is really nothing
but energy.
If you look at your hand,
for example, that hand
looks pretty solid.
But if you were to magnify
that hand a million times,
you'd be looking face to face
with a single individual atom.
And if you could
look into that atom,
you'd see there's really nothing
in there but empty space.
An infinitesimally
tiny energy zipping
around the speed of light.
And that's really what we are.
We're beings of pure energy.
We are composed of all
these countless energies,
tiny energies that are all
flying in this close formation,
giving us this experience that
we're having in this world.
>> Emotion means
energy movement.
And it's our thoughts
that create our emotions.
It's our emotions that
create our behaviors.
>> So when a person
has a conflict,
that creates neural
pathways in our brain.
This amazing cutting
edge doctor, Dr. Hamer,
was able to map out the brain.
When you look at a
non-contrast CAT scan,
you can see a dot
with concentric rings
like a bull's eye.
And what he found is that if
a person had testicular cancer
or ovarian cancer
that spot would
be at the same location in the
brain for all of the people.
And he would ask
the people, "Hey,
what did you just experience?"
And they would talk
about loss of children.
His premise is that
the brain will download
all of our emotions first.
>> When we feel an
emotion strongly enough,
what we're really feeling
is a vibrational energy.
Every emotion has its own
specific vibrational frequency.
Anger is a different emotional
energy, a different frequency,
a different vibration
than frustration.
And that's different
than sadness.
And they're all different.
When you're feeling
an intense emotion,
your whole being can
take on this vibration.
And it's during those times
that sometimes the energy
of that emotion that you're
feeling is too powerful.
And that energy can become
trapped and stuck in the body.
And because that's all the body
really is an energy field, when
you distort that energy
field, you eventually
start to have problems.
Because what you're
really doing is
you're distorting the tissues
of the body themselves.
And if you distort tissue
and you irritate tissue
long enough that tissue,
starts to have problems.
And it can go through those
changes that we call cancer.
>> One of the most amazing
substances in our body is
connective tissue.
There's more connective
tissue in our body
than any other tissue.
What's connective tissue?
It's a protein.
It consists of actually
several proteins.
One is collagen and
the other is elastin.
Collagen gives fascia strength.
While elastin gives
it flexibility.
Literally everything
in your body
is surrounded and
interconnected in this fabric.
So your big toe is
connected to your right ear
through a connective
tissue network.
The other amazing function
of connective tissue
is that it's
conductive of energy.
So when we protect ourselves
from an overwhelming emotional
or physical experience,
our body goes
into a protected state which
causes muscles to contract.
The muscles contract and then
the surrounding connective
tissue begins to be strained by
those contractions causing it
to thicken and bond to
each other and harden.
>> The only disease that exists
in the human experience is
chaos at the atomic level, which
leads to chaos at the molecular
level, which leads to chaos
at the cellular level.
And when enough
cells are in chaos,
you feel it as a sign
or a signal of a chaos
or an offense in the body.
That's what the word
"symptom" means.
A sign or a signal of a chaos.
>> So the accumulation of
suppressed emotion and stress
and pain creates tensions
that begin to layer upon layer
and accumulate over time and
begin to act upon our joints,
our blood vessels, our organs.
This phenomenon of contracted
muscle and harden restricted
connective tissue is what's
referred to as body armor.
>> I think it's the AMA says 80%
of all health issues are stress
related.
>> Your body is your
unconscious mind.
It doesn't know the difference
between an experience
in your life that creates
an emotional response
and an emotion that we
fabricate by thought alone.
To the body, it's believing
it's in the same environmental
conditions.
So it's a scientific fact
that the chemicals of stress
dysregulate and down regulate
our genes that create disease.
It's a fact.
So if we can turn on a stress
response just by thought alone
and those chemicals can make us
sick, then by very definition
our thoughts can make us sick.
>> So anywhere in your body
where you're not only tense
but where you feel hard is
evidence of places in your body
where you're storing emotion
or sensation from the past.
>> The wisdom of thousands
of years through traditional
Chinese medicine, through
Ayurvedic medicine.
They had an understanding
that we have
lost in Western medicine today.
They understood that
specific emotions affected
specific parts of the body.
The kidneys carried fear
and liver carries anger.
>> Think about people who drink.
Oftentimes, they over
stimulate the liver.
And they become angry.
On the other hand, the lungs
produce the emotion of grief
among others.
And so people who tend to have
a lot of grief in their lives
tend to suffer from lung issues.
>> We all know people that
will come and tell you the same
story over and over
and over again.
They're really
suffering in that story.
And what we discover is all
the places where they secretly
suffer in their life, where
they feel that they're
obliged or obligated to
do certain things that
impacts the knees.
Where they don't feel
supported or they
have a worry for money that
will support the lower back.
Where they have difficulty
in communicating
or they feel that the weight of
the world is on their shoulders
that affects that
upper back and neck.
>> I want you to understand why
different cultures knew if you
have a pain in your thumb,
that's very significant
in a very significant emotion.
If you have a pain in
your elbow, your shoulder,
if you feel a little pain
in your chest, in your hips,
in your stomach, in
your intestines--
a lot of people don't
understand anymore
the connection of the entire
body to the brain and the brain
seeing pictures
that create emotions
which create behaviors.
>> They will spin in their mind
this conflict over and over
and over and over again.
The automatic brain is
responsible to keep us alive.
And so what it will
do is it will download
into a specific body part.
So the person can
continue to function.
When it first happens,
it's very clear with a dot
and concentric rings around it.
The bigger the conflict, the
bigger the concentric rings.
It could be a testicular
cancer or an ovarian cancer
and that would download first
into the ovarian or testicular
relay in the brain
and, simultaneously,
on to the organ itself.
And as a person begins to
find solutions and repair,
you will see that this
concentric rings and the
dot itself will change
in how it looks.
>> Emotions tend to build up,
and we tend to push them away
as they build up because we've
been taught to resist things
that don't feel good instead of
feel the things that don't feel
good.
And we look for answers.
And the problem is
that the answers
aren't out in our world,
they're inside us.
Because the feelings
are from inside us.
>> When I look at the
mathematics I've written
and the concepts that
these mathematics bring,
it shows that
within every proton,
every subatomic particle in
the nuclei of atoms is all
the energy, all the
information of all other atoms
in the universe.
So when we go inwards
is when we actually
connect with that oneness
with that connectivity
of all things.
>> And we call these
trapped emotions patterns,
but we do experience
them that way.
If it's an experience that we
have not completed and come
back to self, we do
find a way to keep
repeating those experiences.
And so we re-traumatize
ourselves.
We pick partners that create
the same emotional dynamics,
the same physiological
disabilities because our energy
is not flowing.
>> One of the most amazing
discoveries is the discovery
that 90% of our energy is being
used to suppress energy from
our past.
And when you can get access
to that suppressed energy
and release it, all the energy
we're using to suppress,
you get back.
>> Because your body is
recreating itself all the time.
Literally, this is your story.
Your biology is your biography.
And what we want is we want
to get all this stuff out
of the cells.
We want the new cell
when it goes over
to replicate to come
over to this guy,
to the new cell
that's being created,
and say, "I've got nothing."
>> Well, during the last 10
years that I was in practice,
I was working with some of the
sickest people on the planet.
People who had been told that
there was no cure for them.
People who were
suffering from things
like cancer or chronic fatigue
syndrome, fibromyalgia, lupus,
and other diseases.
What I found was that the
subconscious mind absolutely
holds the key to understanding
the true underlying reasons why
those people were sick.
>> Now our subconscious mind
from conception to puberty,
primarily conception
to seven years of age,
is programmed with
emotions, memories.
>> From the beginning
of your birth,
you start encoding the world
and good experiences and bad
experiences.
And the unconscious
mind holds this,
it stores it, and makes it
real to your conscious mind
later on in life.
We're successfully producing
whatever it is we produce.
If you're depressed, you're
doing something correctly
inside your mind.
If you have pain
inside your mind,
there's a resource to help
create and manifest it
in a belief system.
>> We're often taught
starting at an early age--
you can have a
child who's crying,
and they're
distracting everyone.
And what do the parents do?
They say stop, be
quiet, shut that down.
Men really have a
lot of difficulty
because they haven't been
allowed to feel their emotions.
There's many sayings.
Big boys don't cry.
So you will have a
strong experience
with a lot of emotion.
But then it gets shut down.
And when that happens, it
gets stuck in the body.
And that is how
disease gets created,
that's how energy
drains from us, that
is how we become disconnected.
And really Western
medicine really
wants to just go in and cut
things out and call it a day.
But what happens is what
created that cancer,
that disease in the first
place is still in the cells.
>> Have you ever noticed that
when you have a headache,
if you focus on the headache,
it gets worse and it amplifies.
And your emotions get involved.
And now you're in total chaos.
And you think you need
some kind of medical drug
to kill the pain.
That doesn't cure anything.
That's a neurotoxin.
And it just blocks
the electric signal.
Get to the cause.
What is the negative
source, the toxic emotion
and/or the toxicity of something
that you're eating and drinking
that's also affecting your
emotions in a negative way?
Detox it, clear it.
>> What I have found is that
90% of all the pain that we
experience is due to trapped
emotions to emotional baggage.
I think that this is really
the elephant in the living
room in Western medicine that
we are missing completely.
When people are in pain
in Western medicine,
we give them drugs to
suppress that pain.
When people have
diseases, we give
them medications to suppress
the symptoms of those diseases.
When in reality,
those symptoms are
the body crying out telling us
there's something wrong here.
And the single biggest
imbalance that we suffer from
is emotional baggage--
our trapped emotions.
Those energies that stay with us
after these traumatic emotional
events that we suffer from.
>> And so what happens in
today's world because of what
we have set up that we
call civilized society,
so many of the things that are
pushed upon the masses create
negative emotional molecules.
Once they're formed,
they're real.
>> We live in the most
toxic time on the planet.
We are all flooded.
We are flooded with
environmental toxicity,
heavy metals or chemicals
or pesticides that
are sprayed on our food.
Negative emotions
will be in cells,
and it's almost like they
seal the toxicity in.
>> And you can't even get them
out of the body unless you know
how to.
It's important we
understand how to remove
negative emotional
molecules and restore them
with positive
emotional molecules.
That's the very foundation of
health, life, and longevity.
>> I look at every symptom
as a conversation that
there's nothing that
happens in the body,
there is actually nothing
that happens in our life
by coincidence.
We are not made wrong.
We're not broken.
We're not missing anything.
That every so-called problem
of the body is a portal.
>> Everyone knows
someone that is in pain.
And everyone knows
someone that is
dealing with
depression or anxiety
or self sabotage in some way.
Many of us know
someone who's dealing
with post-traumatic
stress disorder.
And it is these
emotional energies,
these invisible
energies that are
the underlying cause of all of
these things in my experience.
>> We find that people that have
extra weight, there's a reason.
It's not necessarily about
what the person is eating.
Of course, that might
contribute to it.
But more than that,
it's the emotions
connected with what the person
is experiencing in their life.
So often it's a person
wanting to show up,
to exist for people in
their life, in their world,
and they feel small.
They feel like they're
this big in response
to everything that's going on.
And so their body
responds in weight,
in packing it on, and being
bigger in their world.
>> So I'm really also of the
belief that though trapped
emotions are the source of
everything that causes us
difficulty in life and keeps
us from being in our divine
nature.
I'm also a great
believer that it's not
that difficult to begin to
move this energy once we
are aware that that's
what's trying to happen.
>> If we allow ourselves
into those feelings instead
of resisting them
things begin to change.
But therein lies the
rub-- how to get in?
The easiest way and that
I found through 40 or 50
years of searching
is through feeling.
>> Our body is just waiting for
that magic moment when we begin
to allow ourselves to come
out of that survival state.
And being able to open and be
vulnerable to feeling again
is the first start
of healing our hearts
and getting back to our joy.
Because if you go down through
the layers of those emotions
underneath at the very
bottom is your true nature,
is your peaceful self,
your joyous, your playful,
your connected self.
We see someone who's happy
and joyful all the time.
And we're like, what's
wrong with them?
Well, they're really
in their natural state.
>> We need to follow the first
principle of success that
says--
"Think of what you want,
not what you don't want."
Another thing, if you keep
on doing what you're doing,
you're going to keep on
getting what you're getting.
>> And if we allow
those chemicals,
those emotions to last
for hours or days--
that's called a mood.
Now, if we keep the
same emotional reaction,
the same refractory period
lasting for weeks or months,
that's called a temperament.
So you would say,
why does that person
have such an angry temperament?
You say, I don't know?
Why are you so angry?
The person says well I had this
experience nine months ago,
and I'm living by the
same emotional reaction.
Now if we keep those same
refractory periods running
for years on end, that's
called a personality trait.
So then it makes sense then in
order to change our personality
or change some
aspect of ourself,
we have to look at the
emotions that we've
memorized that literally
are stored in the body.
>> So often people think that
they have forgiven people,
and they haven't.
Because their body is
expressing their unforgiveness
through liver issues or pain
or different things like that.
And so then there's
no energy to begin
to live life until we
can resolve our issue,
we can resolve our problem.
>> We understand that the
power of the mind is proven
scientifically that it can heal
itself over and over again.
And, oftentimes, you hear
a doctor or researcher
saying with lemon
in their mouth,
"Well, this placebo effect is
ruining our good research."
The placebo effect is proving
that the mind can heal itself
in spite of the sugar pill
or the fake operation.
Now, the nocebo effect
is exactly the opposite.
Here the nocebo
effect is they're
getting the right drug,
the right surgery,
and yet they don't heal.
And yet both of these people
are doing exactly the same thing
but looking in
different directions.
They're using the universal
pattern of belief or creation.
And here's the
interesting thing.
Research has shown where
they did two groups.
One group got fake radiation.
That's means not
even real radiation.
And 1/3 of them lost their hair.
It is the power of our
mind, the power of belief,
and the power of
our inner creations
to manifest and produce
healing or no healing.
>> So what I found is that
by releasing these trapped
emotional energies
that were invisible,
I could change how people
felt. And I could change
people's pain level
instantaneously in many cases.
And I finally realized that
we could get people well
who had been told that
there was no cure.
And when a medical
doctor tells you
that there's no cure,
what he really means
is that you can't be cured
with drugs or with surgery.
>> True transformation comes
when we break free from
the chains of those
emotional addictions,
when we begin to go into the
operating system where those
programs exist, and we begin to
make transformational changes.
And the side effect of true
transformation is called joy.
Now that elevated
emotion is a liberation
of energy out of the body.
And the body is
freed from the past,
and it moves into
the present moment.
And we begin to experience
the second type of emotion.
We begin to feel joy,
goodwill, gratitude.
>> It's really true that as
we start to release emotions,
it is like peeling off
the layers of an onion.
Some of those may have occurred
when they were a child.
Some of those may have
happened during their divorce
or during their working years or
during college or high school.
And eventually, we are
able to get to a point
where we no longer have
those trapped emotions, where
the body is clear of those.
And at that point it's like
stepping out of the old skin
that we've been carrying
all these years,
and we step out of that
and we become this person
that we were really intended
to be in this world.
And that's what this is about.
And that's why this
is so powerful.
>> So many women are being told
if you haven't started to have
children past a certain age,
it's not going to happen.
And I truly believe
that that is a belief.
Yes, you do get to a point
where things do shut down.
A lot of women actually have--
they've had miscarriages,
they've had abortions,
they've had sexual abuse.
And this whole area,
their female organs,
have the emotional
debris stored in there.
And they're unable to conceive.
You clear that out, and
then you've got babies.
You can.
I had a client, they
had done everything.
They'd done all the IVF.
I believe she was 44 or 45.
We did an emotional process.
There wasn't any energetic
clearing and boom-- twins.
I could show you their pictures.
>> The subconscious mind
acts as a lens of perception,
but even more, the subconscious
mind acts as a broadcasting
signal.
and it broadcasts a
frequency of energy
that then attracts that
same frequency and energy.
So now, let's use
for an example--
here I am at--
I'm in my mother's womb.
I'm developing in
my mother's womb.
And my dad is out of a job.
And my mom is anxious because
it's the third child that's
coming around.
The heartbeat and the emotions
that my mom my dad are feeling
are directly influencing
like a computer
being programmed and
downloading information.
I'm directly downloading
this information.
And this becomes a stored file.
And that file then later in life
doesn't just sit there quiet.
It's energy.
>> Out of the
University of Utah,
they are doing research
on epigenetics.
And they're discovering that
the offspring carry this trauma
for the previous generations.
They did some scientific
studies with mice,
and they conditioned by
shocking the mice to be
afraid of cherry blossoms.
The second and third
generation of mice--
just introducing the cherry
blossom without the shock,
their offspring were still
afraid of the cherry blossoms.
So this proves that there
is an epigenetic link
that the mice carried the
fears of their ancestors.
>> If a baby is born
feeling unloved and unwanted
and unaccepted, then that
creates a belief system.
They will then grow
up and go through life
and attract to
themselves whatever
supports that belief system.
>> An energy is in motion.
And so it stays in motion.
And when it gets triggered,
that energy gets triggered,
it broadcasts a signal
that then attracts
people and circumstances that
give me the same experience--
different face, different name
but the same kind of experience
in my life today.
This is patterns.
The key is to
begin to understand
that there are
emotional patterns
that we carry in our
life that, as a result
of these emotional patterns that
are in our subconscious mind,
influence our
relationship with money,
influence our relationships
with each other,
influence every
aspect of who we are.
>> You see consciously,
we don't remember much.
We don't really know
much consciously.
We live in our
conscious mind, but we
don't remember what we had
for breakfast yesterday.
And we forget our wallet.
We forget our laptop.
We forget our keys,
all kinds of things.
The subconscious mind, however,
is a holographic archiving
computer that is
remembering every moment
of your existence, every split
second of your existence.
And that computer,
that subconscious mind
knows exactly what's wrong
with you if you're sick.
It knows exactly what needs
to be done to get you well.
It knows exactly what
trapped emotions you have--
who was involved, when
they occurred everything
in precise and perfect detail.
>> Those same emotions that
are going on outside of you are
going on inside of you.
And your blood is pumping
these chemicals of frustration,
of jealousy, of
anxiety in our cells--
it's so interesting--
have these receptor
sites, these protein
receptors that bind
these molecules of emotion.
The amazing thing
about these receptors
is that these are the same
receptors that bind heroin.
And when you take heroin once--
what do you call it?
An addict.
Guess what, we are
addicted to our emotions?
>> And so we find ourselves
not in a happy relaxed state,
we have anxieties.
We have panic attacks.
We have all kinds
of things going on.
We're just under the gun,
under the gun, under pressure.
We gotta get this done,
we gotta get that done.
It's time to like-- slow down.
>> So when presented with
this idea of healing where
you're supposed to let go
of the past and really open
to feelings that you've
suppressed and released them,
people will often say, I
don't know how to do that.
Or I'm afraid if
I do, that I might
be worse off than I am now.
One of the greatest
models of healing
are young children, especially
like around two or three.
Because they have
such emotional courage
and freedom and fluidity.
If you look at these
young children,
they laugh when they're happy.
They cry when they're sad.
They scream when they're angry.
And when they're frightened,
they come to their parents.
And all they want to
do is just to be held.
And when they're held, they
might curl up in a little ball
and maybe shake a little bit.
And when they feel
safe and comforted,
they let their feelings
out and they express them.
And then they run right back out
and play again and are laughing
and are happy again.
This is what we all
have the capacity to do.
We can heal ourselves of all
this accumulated emotion that's
been building up in
our bodies causing
it to be tense and hard,
affecting us, causing us pain,
and depriving us of all this
energy that's all locked up
instead of being available
to us in our present day life
to do the things that
we really want to do.
>> You know, one of the
biggest questions people have,
at least, when they come to
engage with me is what is
my purpose in life.
I can't get at it.
I can't feel it.
And the way you do that is
simply fill in the blank.
If I weren't afraid, I would--
>> So whatever you
want in your body,
you simply give thanks for it.
You don't ask for it
because if you continually
ask for something, you are
saying you don't have it.
If you give thanks
for it, you're
acknowledging that
you do have it.
>> So where you place your
attention is where you place
your energy.
And as we begin to decide really
clearly on creating a future
or creating a new destiny,
the more we bring it to life.
>> I run into people
who are depressed,
and they are so depressed,
and the medical drugs
they're on, all you gotta do is
read the side effects that say
they can lead to suicides,
murders, all kind--
come on.
>> Go to your general
physician, and you'll say,
I'm having a hard time and I'm
depressed and I'm exhausted.
And they'll give you an
antidepressant, an SSRI.
Psychotropic medication
literally just
moves what chemicals
you have around.
What happens if your
pharmacy is already depleted?
>> Do you realize the ancients
knew what to do for depression?
Number one-- get
out into the sun.
The sun is healing.
Number two-- the colors
of the plant foods
of orange and yellow.
If you will eat an orange
and pineapple together,
you watch what happens to
depression within 72 hours.
The emotional molecules
being generated
in the neurochemistry of the
brain, it will blow you away.
>> It was a scientific
experiment done a little ways
back, where they were looking
to see if emotions filter
our perception.
So they took a group of people
that were clinically depressed,
and they showed them
equal slides of a wedding
scene and a funeral scene.
And the next day, they brought
them back into the lab.
And they said to them-- which
were there more slides of?
Were there were more
slides of a wedding scene
or a funeral scene?
And all of the clinically
depressed people
said, well, they were way more
slides of the funeral scene.
So as we begin to
remove the masks
or remove the lenses that
block our true greatness
or our true self,
we begin to see
what's already always existed.
But we didn't have the
mind to perceive it.
>> The way that we can speak
with the subconscious mind,
this invisible
part of ourselves--
this unseen part of our self--
is through what I call
a muscle reflex testing.
Every body is built on reflexes.
Your eyes blink,
your iris constricts,
your tongue salivates,
your knee jerks.
We have reflexes that control
every aspect of our body.
And so muscle, the strength of a
muscle, the ability of a muscle
to lockout or give
way gives us a read
when our subconscious mind
is in a reactive state
and when it's not.
When we're in an
active state, when
the conscious and
subconscious mind are bridged
or when they're are gapped.
You can learn how to
muscle test yourself.
You can muscle test
another person.
You can use someone
as a surrogate
to work on an animal or
a child or a person who
is not able to do muscle
testing themselves.
The simple way, and I
just want to show you
how to muscle tests so that
you can really discover
the emotions that are buried
in your subconscious mind that
haven't been fully
processed in your heart
is you just keep your arm in.
And you imagine that
you're holding a bucket
and you like fill that bucket up
with like five pounds of gold.
And I put my hand on
top, and I push down.
I tell this arm to hold strong.
And I'm looking for it to lock
up, looking for to lockout.
Everything gets
compared to that.
And it locks out.
Now so many things can
trigger your subconscious mind
emotionally to react.
And so whether it be
thinking about something,
whether it be a color,
a sound something
can trigger a type of
condition response.
When I even say the word love--
just the word "love--"
I get that elbow
and I say hold
strong, it locks out.
When I say the word
"fear--" fear, there's
an energy to that.
I can actually even feel it.
You can feel it.
When I just say it fear--
hold strong, hold strong.
And it might look
like, oh, you're
just doing that yourself.
No, I'm not-- hold strong.
Now I'm going to go back
to love-- love, love, love.
Hold strong-- it locks out.
>> One of the most profound
proofs of this work is that it
works with animals,
as well as people.
Sometimes people might say this
is due to the placebo effect.
But there's no placebo
effect working with animals.
And the Emotion Code works
beautifully with animals.
And we have found that
90% of all their problems
are also due to
trapped emotions.
Sometimes we find that when
we're working with animals,
we need to work with
the owner as well.
Because sometimes
the animal will
take on the trapped
emotions that the owner has.
And there's a dynamic going on
between the two of them that
sometimes has to be addressed.
One of the most amazing
stories about this
was a horse that I was
asked to work on one day.
And we work on a horse
through a surrogate person,
typically, where we'll have
one person that we will test.
And we will ask questions
directly of the animal
and get the answers on
the surrogate person's
outstretched arm.
And as I'm asking
questions of this horse,
I find that the horse
has an imbalance--
it had a problem with lameness.
It wasn't walking correctly.
And it had a couple of different
veterinarians look at it.
They couldn't figure
out what was wrong.
So they called me.
And what I found was it had an
imbalance in its hindquarters
that was due to a
trapped emotion.
And the trapped
emotion was sadness.
And so I'm asking
questions, there's
a crowd gathered
around listening.
Is this trapped emotion
about another horse?
No.
Is it about a human?
Is it about a dog?
No.
A cat?
I'm running out of options.
A bird flies overhead, and
I asked, is it about a bird?
And the answer that
came back was, yes.
It was about a bird.
And everyone started laughing.
And I started laughing too,
because it seemed so comical
but the horses owner was there.
And she said, you know what?
I think I know
what this is about.
She said that a week before
there was a little baby
bird in a nest of
baby birds immediately
in front of this horse's stall.
And one of the baby birds
fell out of the nest
and fell down onto the ground
and struggled for its life
and died.
This whole sad, tragic affair
was played out immediately
in front of this horse
who was powerless to help
and was overwhelmed by
the emotion of sadness.
That's what got stuck in the
horse-- that emotional sadness.
We released it.
They took the horse out.
And it was walking
perfectly from that moment.
>> I can do this
on someone else.
I can do it on myself.
But that enables me
never to have to guess--
there's no reason to guess.
In a laser-like way,
we can know when
you're in an emotional
state of reaction.
So that you can process
whatever emotion
is going on in the moment.
>> Now, we go
through a very short,
simple process to identify a
trapped emotion and to bring it
to awareness.
>> So now we have here
the Emotion Code chart.
What we're going to do is
we're going to find the trapped
emotion on this chart.
And here's how you do it.
It's very, very simple.
>> The first question is, do I
have a trapped emotion that can
be released?
And if the answer
is yes, then you
go to the Emotion Code
chart immediately.
And you ask is this
trapped emotion
in column A on this chart?
If it's not in column, that
means it's in column B.
Is this trapped
emotion in column B
in one of the odd rows?
And if the answer is yes, then
you ask, is it in row one?
No.
Is it in row three?
I'm getting a yes.
Strong-- is the
emotion confusion?
No.
is the emotion defensiveness?
Is the emotion grief?
Actually, that's strong.
So that's a trapped emotion of
grief that we've identified.
>> Once that emotion is
brought to the surface,
we're actually able to release
that trapped emotional energy
by simply swiping either
fingertips or a magnet over
the governing meridian which
happens to run from the lip
over the head back all the
way down to the tailbone.
Now, when we pass our
fingers or a magnet
over that governing
meridian, what we're doing is
we're actually putting
energy into that meridian.
Now a meridian is
a river of energy
that flows just under the skin.
The governing
meridian connected up
with all the meridians and that
pure intention of yours passes
into that meridian
and releases-- it
goes into all the
other meridians,
and it releases that energy.
The best analogy that
I can give you for this
is if you take a credit card--
If I take this credit
card and I rub a magnet
on the back of that on
that magnetic strip,
that information that's
encoded there is gone.
And we can't use it anymore.
And that's how the
Emotion Code works.
It's the same thing as just
erasing that emotional energy
that is stored in our body.
So once you've
released that emotion,
the next question is to
verify with the body that
was released.
And so you simply ask, did I
release that trapped emotion?
And the answer should be yes.
>> You see if all things
are composed of energy.
That means fear,
shame, and guilt
are simply forms of energy.
And if we can
change them, we do.
So I simply use dousing.
>> Now, if you want to
know what dousing is,
it's simply the movement
of a physical object that,
in my opinion, tells you what
you already intuitively know,
you just don't
believe you know it.
I'll say, why don't
you check to see
what is the effect of
unworthiness, doubt, fear,
shame, and guilt upon you.
Transform all that,
usually, into enlightenment,
check it again.
And it's not there anymore.
What I'm saying is we can
take one energy of any type
and transform it
into another energy.
>> Where people bring touch to
your physical body and begin
to put their hands in the places
in your body where you are
holding on to past memory, when
they touch you in a loving,
gentle, sensitive way, and bring
your awareness to these places
and starts to invite us to
get conscious of these places,
because most of us don't realize
how much stress we're really
holding onto until somebody
actually touches it.
And once you're connected
and conscious, waiting there
inside our bodies are those
feelings from our past
that overwhelmed us.
And as you allow yourself
into those feelings,
the mind becomes quiet.
The feelings unwind as you
let yourself into them.
And as you allow yourself to
feel these energies, emotions,
pains, sensations, they'll
start to flow through you.
And as that begins
to happen, you
begin to have what's
called a release.
On the other side of
this release is calm.
There's real true peace as
if a load's been lifted.
Your body, your
physical body begins
to relax on a deep level.
You begin to breathe easier.
There's energy flowing
through your body again.
>> It's interesting because
today's physicists have
confirmed the teachings
of the ancient scholars.
That everything
is made of light.
Everything is light.
What happens to
detox emotions is
to make sure that
when you start to feel
a negative emotion, number
one, slow down, take a breath,
get outside, maybe
even go for a walk.
Most people don't realize that
if you're emotionally upset
and you just don't
know who you are--
shut up and go for a walk.
You go out and you
start walking when
you're emotionally upset
and negative and everything
else that's going on within
three minutes, that walking,
that motion of being outside
in the open air in the sunlight
re-establishes and clears it.
The liver produces what
is called today anions.
Most people know it as bile.
The one food that
has anions, and it's
the only food on the face
of the Earth they've ever
been able to study that
produces it is lemons.
And so we find that
these people are
lacking in typically a lot of
emotional joy and happiness
and the positive emotions,
which weakens actually
the function of the liver.
And the liver is tied
directly to the skin.
And so if you'll get your
body out into the sunshine
and let the yellow light of
the sun shine all on your body,
they know it produces
emotional molecules that
target the liver.
Well, they call it vitamin
D, but that's only one
of over 1,000 nutritional
components of biophotons
of sunlight.
They've only named one, and
they know there's thousands.
So here's the deal,
you drink one cup
of fresh squeezed lemon
juice every day for 90 days.
And because the liver goes into
mitosis or cellular division
and replaces itself
every 90 days,
if you're being toxic
emotionally and even
in your diet, the new
liver is weaker in function
and can eventually fail.
If all of a sudden, you're
getting into the sunlight,
you're drinking lemon juice,
which has the anions of bile,
so the liver doesn't
have to produce it.
It's not stressed.
Within 90 days, we've had
people with failed livers
have 100% functional
liver within 90 days.
>> The main thing that--
epidemic even mainstream
medical doctors
are checking people for
vitamin D deficiency.
We've been taught to
stay out of the sun.
And so now we don't have enough
vitamin D. And vitamin D is
very important for your mood.
It's very important
for your health.
And the only way to actually fix
the storage unit, the only way
to make new neurotransmitters
is through a better diet
or amino acid therapy and
vitamins and minerals.
>> In Western medicine, they
have what they call these seven
levels of neuroendocrine glands.
In a lot of other cultures, they
know it is the seven chakras--
the exact same levels.
Those chakras, those seven areas
of the neuroendocrine systems
of the body, running from
the pineal in the brain
right on down through the body
to the reproductive organs
of the ovaries and testicles
and everything in between,
they had assigned
anciently the colors
of the rainbow moving up.
And it's so interesting
because it's
the colors of the foods
that target specifically
those levels of the
chakras of the system.
And the emotions of
positiveness or the emotions
of negative in those levels.
Red was a color
that the ancients
knew represented power
and love and warmth.
If you look at
red and look away,
you're probably
going to see green.
That color green--
eating those foods--
gets rid of the negative
emotions of the color red,
which is anger.
Oh, you're seeing red.
Yes, if you're angry, if you're
irritated, if your buttons are
pushed too easy, you need
to eat more green foods
to clear the negative emotions.
The fastest way to heal
the emotions, according
to the ancient wisdom,
was to able to stop eating
because foods create moods--
fast, faster, and faster.
"To fast" doesn't mean
to starve to death.
It means to strengthen, to
hold fast, to hold firm.
And the ancients knew that.
There is not one animal
on the face of this Earth
if it's sick or injured
in any way will eat.
Even cats and dogs, they'll eat
grass to make themselves puke
and throw up to get
rid of everything.
And then they will
never eat again
until they know their body has
hit a point of strengthening,
of holding firm.
But what if you were to fast
just on water because water
has all seven spectral
colors of the rainbow.
That's why you can see
a rainbow in the sky
when it rains and light
shines through it.
A faster-- not as fastest--
but a faster way is
to drink the blood
or the juices of colored foods.
When you eat dark chocolate,
that cocoa or cocoa bean,
the real one not the fake stuff
that's in so many products,
but real dark chocolate or hops
in unfiltered organic beer--
they are all of the same genius.
They're all of the same family.
Every one of those things is
to create happiness and joy
within the human experience.
I've even helped people
addicted to different drugs
and cigarette smoking,
commercials cigarettes, which
are toxic, and you can
use something as simple
as good black licorice
and macadamia nuts.
You have them together, you
carry them with you whenever
you feel like having a cigarette
or has some other addiction,
you eat that first.
You would not believe
the hundreds and hundreds
of hundreds of people
that have overcome
their chemical and emotional
addictions to things.
And these are the things
we've got to get back to.
What foods and
drinks can we have
to target any stress
or emotions that can be
negative in the human system?
I love this ancient
wisdom because it works.
>> So a lot of times, if you
are whole and healed and you are
vibrating at a high frequency
without these negative things,
you can have toxicity come
around or you can have disease
come near--
I mean, we're constantly being
exposed to the retrovirus,
which is the cold virus.
But what happens is
if your cells are
full of happy emotions,
there's no place
actually for that virus
or for that toxicity
to get into the cell.
>> We have several techniques
that we use for letting go
of the emotions that we are
carrying and one of them,
which is my favorite
is the Ho'oponopono.
The Ho'oponopono comes
from indigenous Hawaii,
and it literally
means "to make right."
It is for simple phrases--
"I'm sorry," "Please, forgive
me," "I love you," "Thank you."
For instance, if a
person has a breakup,
and they're experiencing
a lot of pain.
And they're not even sure
why that breakup happened.
This is a great place
to use the Ho'oponopono.
So an individual would look
inside and just really access
that pain that they're feeling.
And then they would
say, "I'm sorry.
I'm sorry for whatever
reason this is showing up.
Please, forgive me.
I love you, thank you."
It's literally taking
100% responsibility
for whatever shows
up in our life.
You have a big
emotional release.
Sometimes you might cry.
Sometimes you just feel a
tremendous amount of peace.
And then you let it go.
I know this sounds so simple--
too simple.
This is frequently
what I hear in the work
that I do that these
tools are simple.
But if you do it, you will see
a huge transformation begin
to take place in your life.
>> What's so important to
recognize is life is not about
what happens to you.
Life is all about how
you choose to respond.
>> Many things that I believe
affects people is unworthiness,
doubt, fear, shame, and guilt.
Because these emotions have
affected the human
race for centuries.
>> The biggest cloud to
our perception is fear.
And we're so accustomed to it.
And we're so inside
the matrix of it,
we consider it a normal
part of our reality.
And one that we just
at best can manage,
maybe play dodgeball
with or hide and seek.
But what I do is I
actually help people
move through that wall of fear
by simply taking a breath,
asking them to put their
hand on their heart,
and focus their
attention to where
they are in present
time looking at what's
right in front of them.
And then I say, "What
are you afraid of?"
And then you do it again--
"If I weren't afraid, I would--"
and let your heart speak.
And within two minutes, three
minutes, they've actually--
they've emptied that fear.
They have looked at
it, vocalized it.
But coming back to the
moment, they see that--
I anchor them back
in present time.
Because it's not fear that
actually keeps us trapped.
It's hiding fear that
keeps us trapped.
>> Then we're able to be in
our body in a peaceful way.
We're able to rest
in our feelings
and not be so much in our heads.
And the neat thing
about this process
is that as we begin to get
vulnerable again to feeling,
we also begin to experience this
fearless part of our nature.
There's a part of us
that is truly unafraid.
And we need to be reminded
of that part of us.
>> As you begin to step
towards your path and purpose
and reconnect and realign
with that kind of spiritual
integrity, the universe
is stepping toward you.
So there is this
convergence going on
until eventually you're
being met by opportunities.
>> Let's say you're having
trouble paying your bills
and you go into the feelings
around paying those bills.
And then, all of a sudden,
there's money to pay the bills.
And it comes from places
you couldn't imagine
or maybe they just find
an error in your bill.
It's just it's
just really amazing
how life and the illusion
changes because of that.
>> I worked on a 33-year-old
woman once who had never been
in a long term relationship.
And she was an attractive woman.
And I asked her, "Why?
What happened to you that
makes you feel this way?"
She said eight years before
she was very deeply involved
with a man that she was
very much in love with,
and he dumped her
and broke her heart.
Well, as you might imagine
that created a wall
of trapped emotional
negative energies
around her heart-- a heart wall.
We cleared those emotions.
And when that very last
emotion was released,
I felt the energy
coming out of her heart.
It was as if a stone
had been rolled away.
And I was suddenly
instantly bathed
in the most beautiful amazing
energy coming out of her core.
And I told her, I said now that
heart of yours is unlocked.
And I said that pure essence
of who you really are
is now radiating out
from you, and it's
filling the immensity of space.
I said you're much
more likely now
to be able to achieve
your dream and your goal
of falling in love and
finding your soulmate
within this next year.
Now, this is not unusual.
When the heart
wall is taken down
and those trapped
emotions are released,
the phone sometimes starts
to ring for women who
have been hoping it would ring.
It suddenly does.
That energy goes
out from your body.
And I believe that it does
fill the immensity of space
and other people tune
into that and then
they're attracted to that.
- Hey, how are you?
- Good, how are you?
- I'm very good,
thank you, yeah.
So you work here?
- Yeah, level 11.
- This is a little
bit bold, but do
you reckon we can hang
out sometime to have
coffee or juice or something?
>> Yeah, sure.
>> OK should I got
your phone number or--
>> Yeah, why not?
>> 415.
>> 503-5933
>> 5933.
>> I'm Lauren, by the way.
>> Hi, Lauren, I'm Ty.
>> Nice to meet you.
Um, this is me.
>> Well, thanks a lot.
It was nice to meet.
>> Nice to meet you too.
>> OK.
>> Now, I want you to
think about something.
She's never been able to have
a long term relationship, why?
Because she had a heart wall.
And when she would
see an attractive guy,
her heart would send a
little butterfly of love
towards that guy but that
little butterfly of love,
that little love
energy from her heart
would have to pass through those
layers of anger and resentment
and depression and frustration
and sorrow and sadness.
And by the time it got out on
the other side of that energy,
it wasn't a little
butterfly anymore.
It was probably more
like a gargoyle.
And the guy on the other
end would sense that
and go the other direction.
That's how this is working.
>> So another technique that
we use is called, oddly enough,
the Walker from Reno.
And you're thinking about
some kind of conflict
that you have with
somebody else.
And, basically, what
you do is you just
put your hands over
your heart, and you
would say, "My heart is full
of love and understanding.
My heart is full of
love and understanding."
For instance, if I'm angry
or upset with my husband,
I'll do it for myself.
"My heart is full of
love and understanding--"
sometimes 10 or
20 times, whatever
allows you to come
to a place of peace.
And then I'll do
it for my husband.
John's heart is full
of understanding
or Greg's heart is full
of love and understanding.
Whoever your partner is--
you'll want to personalize it.
And then it allows us to
change the perspective,
to have an understanding
that most of the time people
are not trying to hurt us,
but rather they just missed
the boat or we missed the boat.
And so this is the way
that we can clear that.
>> The experiences that we've
had in observing people going
within and beginning to
unmemorize an old emotion
and then recondition the body to
a new mind or to a new emotion.
The body begins to
get back online.
It begins to heal itself.
And we've seen people with
MS and lupus and cancer.
And we've seen their
bodies literally
change and the conditions
return back to normal.
So 5% of who we are
is our conscious mind.
95% are those subconscious
programs that we've memorized.
I am so thrilled to
be 586 years old--
actually, what am I?
39, something like that.
Anyway, I am pain free.
I've never been to a doctor.
I don't take
medicines, never have.
All I do is embrace
the physics of nature.
And I think about
being happy and joyful.
>> What you find is you stop
striving, and you start living,
you start being rather
than working hard at it.
And when that occurs, the
house you want just appears.
The money you need
seems to work out.
It's not logical, but
the trouble is you see,
it's not logical.
>> There is no one way
that works for everybody.
If there was, we'd all
be doing it already.
And I will say this, if you
have something inside your mind
that's hurtful and painful,
how long should you hold it?
And I say as long as you'd
like a little child hold it.
It will help you deal
with life better.
You'll live longer, be happier,
your wrinkles won't be as deep.
And you'll be a whole
lot happier regardless.
You'll look younger if
you know how to get rid
of your stress and emotions.
You'll be thinner.
You'll make more money.
Everything will change when
you change your inner world
and change what you don't
want and turn in what you do.
It works with everybody.
>> And we move from the
selfish states that are driven
by the hormones of stress
to the selfless states,
where we really want to
contribute or we really want
to make a difference.
And so making an effort to
really transform ourselves
I think is the best way to
begin to transform the world.
>> No matter where you are,
no matter what you're going
through right now, no matter
what you've already gone
through, this is
your starting point.
And encourage you to begin to
look at yourself in an entirely
new way.
>> What I've discovered is that
98% of the world's people are
spending 98% of their time
on things that don't matter.
That is, the average
person has no idea
what they're doing
here, who they
are, the real fundamental
and sacred purpose
of their whole life.
>> As you open to it, you're
removing the blocks that are
in your way to abundance or
really to anything you truly
desire.
And then you arrive where
you've been looking for.
Of course, your life will
change along that path.
And you may change
what you want.
And that, too, is OK because
that's what makes it fun--
the option to change.
>> But do something that makes
someone else or something feel
better.
That in turn will
make you feel better.
And I have a saying that
goes something like this.
That no act of kindness,
regardless of how small,
is ever wasted.
>> You tried changing
the other people,
you tried to change
your husband, your wife,
your mother.
It doesn't work.
But when you change
you, it affects them.
Because of your attitude
and your beliefs
and your behaviors.
>> We've got to get back to
the understanding of the power
of the human body
to heal itself.
If you know how to support it
with foods and air and water
and sunshine and
walking and loving
relationships and finding
something that you're
passionate about and happy.
Those are the
principles of health.
That's where this comes from.
Only your body can heal itself.
Only your body heals
itself, and most people
have forgotten that.
Doctors can set bones,
but they can't heal them.
Only your body heals itself.
Self-care is the future, why?
Because it was the brilliant
wisdom of the past.
>> One of the things that
I've experienced over the last
several years is that
whether I'm speaking to a CEO
of a company or a prison inmate
or a teacher or a janitor,
I think that everybody secretly
believes in their greatness
that they really believe
that they can do a better job
in life.
And the new science of
neuroplasticity and epigenetics
gives people permission to begin
to create the life that they
desire in that
science really has
become the contemporary
language of mysticism.
Science is the language
to explain possibility.
And I think one of the
greatest things that I've
learned over the
years is that you
don't have to be a priest
or a nun or an intellect
to begin to apply
these principles.
>> Let me tell you
a little anecdote.
A few days ago, a lady
said to me in Los Angeles,
"My husband died a year ago.
And he shared with me a
great lesson on his deathbed.
He said to me, 'Come close,
I want to tell you something.
Listen very carefully, I
can only say this once.
I don't have much
strength left."
She said, "I'm listening,
darling, what is it?"
He said, "Remember this always--
each morning the moment you
take your head off the pillow,
you have all you need."
That allows me to
live the kind of life
that I've chosen to live.
I only wish I had
learned these things
when I was much younger--
so old so soon,
so smart so late.
[MUSIC PLAYING]